The Energy Center Lab (EClab) is the Polytechnic of Turin's initiative that coordinates and promotes the scientific activities of the Center. The multidisciplinary research team includes competencies deriving from different departments of the University and is active on various energy-related research topics. EClab provides integrated hardware-software tools to simulate future scenarios for energy supply and its end-use, taking account of environmental constraints and socio-economic aspects. The increasing amount of (energy) data available in real-time is an integral part of the multi-layer approach carried out by the Center. The ultimate goal is not just to simulate the competition of different technologies - both at a local level, for example an urban district, and at a global level, for example a nation - but also to verify the impact that energy policies and environmental issues have on their dissemination, and also the impact of social interactions (user behaviour).

The city of Turin has been the first case study. A densely populated urban area is an ideal case to verify the synergy between digitalization and energy to design and then realize the future city. Buildings and mobility are in fact among the most energetic sectors of an urban settlement. The search for the optimal mix of energy sources to be used in this context and the integrated management of local energy networks (gas, electricity and heat), maximizing the local production of energy from renewable sources, is the first example of the research goals.
